TELCODOCS-778 OVN/OVS Troubleshooting guide (#54155)
openshift/openshift-docs: networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/ovn-kubernetes-logical-architecture.adoc

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="ovn-kubernetes-logical-architecture"]
= OVN-Kubernetes logical architecture
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: ovn-kubernetes-architecture

toc::[]

The following diagram shows the OVN-Kubernetes logical architecture.

.OVN-Kubernetes architecture
image::ovn-k-logical-architecture.png[OVN-Kubernetes logical architecture]

The key components are:

* **Gateway Routers** - (sometimes called L3 Gateway Routers) are typically used between distributed routers and the physical network. It (including its logical patch ports) is bound to a physical location (not distributed), or chassis. The patch ports on this router are known as l3gateway ports in ovn-sbdb. example: GR_ovn-worker1 and GR_ovn-worker2.

> * **Distributed Logical Routers** - and the logical switches behind it, to which VMs and containers attach, effectively reside on each hypervisor. example: ovn_cluster_router.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Distributed Logical Routers** - and the logical switches behind it, to which virtual machines and containers attach, effectively reside on each hypervisor. example: ovn_cluster_router.
```

Author: removed file as copied contents to modules

* **Join local switch** - used to connect the distributed router and gateway routers. It reduces the number of IP addresses needed on the distributed router. example: join.

> * **Logical switches with patch ports** - are used to virtualize the network stack. They connect remote logical ports through tunnels. example: ovn-worker && ovn-worker2.

Reviewer: Virtualize is not a word....consider how else to describe this

> * **Logical switches with localnet ports** - are used to bridge/connect OVN to the physical network. They connect remote logical ports by bridging the packets to directly connected physical L2 segments using localnet ports. example: ext_ovn-worker1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Logical switches with localnet ports** - are used to bridge and connect OVN to the physical network. They connect remote logical ports by bridging the packets to directly connected physical L2 segments using localnet ports. example: ext_ovn-worker1.
```

Reviewer: use and or or instead of /

Author: removed file as copied contents to modules

* **Patch ports** - represent connectivity between logical switches and logical routers and between peer logical routers. A single connection will have a pair of patch ports at each such point of connectivity, one on each side.

> * **l3gateway ports** - are the port binding entries in sddb for logical patch ports used in the gateway routers. They are called  l3gateway ports rather than patch ports just to portray the fact that these ports are bound to a chassis just like the gateway router itself.

Reviewer: what does sddb stand for? May want to spell out the acronym since it isn't used on this page.

Author: removed file as copied contents to modules

* **localnet ports** - are present on the bridged logical switches that allows a connection to a locally accessible network from each ovn-controller instance. This helps model direct connectivity to the physical network from the logical switches. A logical switch can only have a single localnet port attached to it.

> [role="_additional-resources"]

Reviewer: Is this meant to be empty?

Author: removed file as copied contents to modules
